suckless conference 2018, Würzburg, Germany
===========================================

slcon 2018 will be held in Würzburg on 2018-07-(06-09).

Based on the very good experience we had last year, we will spend the
time together working and reflecting on projects and are open for talk
proposals, even though this will not be the main focus of this event.

The accomodation fee will be 150€ or less and includes everything (a
bed, towels, all meals, snacks, planned events) as a shared
accomodation. The only thing you need to schedule in beyond that are
your travel costs and costs in case we go to the pub or a restaurant.
If you wish to set up your own accomodation the accomodation fee will
be 50€ or less.

In order to be able to arrange the conference properly, we kindly ask
all of you who want to attend the event to register until 2018-06-01 by
sending a mail to

* [chairs@suckless.org](mailto:chairs@suckless.org)

with your name and clear message that you will definitely attend.
Places are limited and secured on a first mail basis. We will inform
all successful registrants within 2 weeks after receiving their
mail.

We also believe that it would be a good idea to arrange your travel
already, if you plan to attend. We recommend arrival on 2018-07-06 and
departure on 2018-07-(08-09).
The closest international airport is Frankfurt/Main, Germany. Würzburg
is a 90 minute trip from Frankfurt airport and well-accessible by train.

Members of the suckless.org e.V. are invited to attend our annual
Mitgliederversammlung (members meeting) on 2018-07-06 night in
Würzburg (the exact location will be communicated around early June
and we intend to meet in some Hinterzimmer of a nice Bavarian
Wirtshaus like last year).
