Google Summer of Code 2009
==========================
We are applying as a mentoring organization for [Google Summer of Code 2009](http://code.google.com/soc/).

Background
----------
We are home of quality software such as [dwm](http://dwm.suckless.org),
[dmenu](http://tools.suckless.org), [libixp](http://libs.suckless.org/libixp),
[wmii](http://wmii.suckless.org) and plenty other [tools](http://tools.suckless.org), with
a focus on simplicity, clarity and frugality. Our [philosophy](/common/) is
about keeping things simple, minimal and usable. We believe this should become
the mainstream philosophy in the IT sector. Unfortunately, the tendency for
complex, error-prone and slow software seems to be prevalent in present-day
software industry. We intend to prove the opposite with our software projects.

Our project focuses on advanced and experienced computer users. In contrast
to the usual proprietary software world or many mainstream open source
projects that focus more on average and normal end users, we think that
experienced users are mostly ignored. This is particularly true for user
interfaces, such as graphical environments on desktop computers, on mobile
devices, and in so-called Web applications. We believe that the market of
experienced users is growing continously, with each user looking for more
appropriate solutions for his/her work style.

Furthermore, minimalism results in reasonable and attainable goals. While other
organizations, without a driving philosophy of minimalism, may furnish
unreliable and incomplete projects, we strive to maintain minimalism and
clarity to drive development to completion.

Unlike most open source projects, strong leadership is essential to us.
Our projects are usually led by a single person who maintains the mainline
code repository. Users discuss, review and contribute to the project on
[dedicated project mailing lists and on IRC](/common/community).

Mentors
-------
We intend that each student will be the project leader of his/her particular
project and the only individual with commit privilege for the repository.

There will be one mentor and one backup mentor per project. In addition, the
suckless.org community will act as a rigid external reviewer of the
student's progress, as well as of the mentor's.

The following persons have volunteered to serve as mentor during Google
Summer of Code 2009:

* Anselm R Garbe <<garbeam@gmail.com>>
* Szabolcs Nagy <<nszabolcs@gmail.com>>
* Tuncer Ayaz <<tuncer.ayaz@gmail.com>>
* Uriel <<uriel99@gmail.com>>
* Kai Hendry <<kai.hendry@gmail.com>>
* pancake <<pancake@gmail.com>>
* ...more to be announced...

If you want to act as a mentor as well, please contact Anselm before you
add yourself to the list.

General ideas
-------------
Our project ideas for Google Summer of Code 2009 are in general intended
to focus on:

* Graphical user interfaces for expert users (such as more advanced
  concepts for mail clients, messaging clients, music players, text editors)
* Web applications for expert users following our GUI concepts
* Mobile applications for expert users following our GUI concepts
* General userland enhancements to Unix-like operating systems, in particular
  GNU/Linux
* Audio applications
* Image/Streaming/Gallery desktop and web applications
* Foundations of a new windowing system for Unix-like operating systems
  (based on xorg drivers, but no X11- or XServer-dependency)
* Improvements of our existing software projects

Conrete ideas
-------------
Post your project ideas for students projects during Google Summer of Code
2009 here. See the [FAQ entry][FAQ] on the ideas list for further details.

The listed ideas generally require good knowledge of C and experience with
Unix-like operating systems. The difficulty ranges from medium to high.
An academical background in computer science is desirable but not essential.

Please consider to contact us first if you want to apply for a project, so we
can discuss the ideas at first and avoid misunderstandings in the first place.

### Unix utilities

Projects like [dmenu](http://tools.suckless.org/dmenu) proof that it's possible
to bring the Unix philosophy onto the desktop and into the land of graphical
applications. We believe that there is big potential for doing similiar things
for other purposes as well such as managing contacts, bookmarks, browsing
files/directories, reading/managing mails, organizing/viewing images/videos and
listing to music, in a very elegant but Unix-like way. We believe that such tools
should have a GUI but communicate via standard I/O and be very flexible in the
combination of their purposes.

### Port dwm to different platforms

Many dwm users who have to use Microsoft Windows regularly have requested to
port dwm to Microsoft Windows. There are several tiling window managers, but
unfortunately the majority are proprietary software and can't keep up with dwm.

Similarly we believe that porting dwm to Mac OS X, or onto mobile devices with
certain constraints might guide to a new paradigm of future window management
concepts in mainstream software.

There might also be the opportunity to make dwm itself more friendly with
well-established desktop environments, to integrate well with Gnome or KDE in
order to proof that dynamic and tiled window management should be the default
in future window management concepts.

### ddm

There is no suckless display manager for X11 at the moment, thus a new
dynamic display manager (ddm) should designed and implemented.

### stm

There seems to be a need for a suckless ticket management system, as this
is a common task in today's daily activity in business and private time
management. This task includes the design and implementation of a suckless
system that solves the problem of TTS, ARS and TRS all together.

### Comprehensive code audit

All software hosted at suckless.org should undergo a comprehensive
code audit. This includes search for vulnerabilities, verification of
all algorithms, proof-reading of the documentation and possibly a code
clean-up. The result has to be a report on all found errors and maybe some
advice for the project maintainers. This task requires experience in this
field.

### Lightweight volume manager alternative

We'd like to see a lightweight and simple alternative to gnome-volume-manager
and similiar programs.

### A modern C99-only compiler

We'd like to see a modern C99 compiler which performs reasonable well and only
supports C, not C++. gcc is too slow and too focused on language-agnostics and
particularly focused on its C++ support. We got the impression that most open
source software is written in C and makes no use of C++, so that it would be
desirable to have a modern C99 compiler for the x86 and arm architecture.

We are also concerned about recent attempts by certain parties to implement the
C frontend for gcc in C++. We believe that is a bad decision in general (due to
demanding C++ as bootstrapping environment) and would like to get rid from the
gcc dependency for these reasons.

We'd like to see that the C99 compiler is able to build recent linux kernels as
a test bed.

Due to the high difficulty we believe that this project might consist of up to
3 students concentrating on different parts (parsing/lexing/front-end/syntax
tree being 1 student, AST optimization/reverse engineering being another
student and code generator being a third student).

[FAQ]: http://code.google.com/opensource/gsoc/2009/faqs.html#0_1_ideas_5167658354380897_772
